 Political Science / International Relations / Development Studies

Another Day of Life – Ryszard Kapuściński

A History of Modern Angola – Patrick Chabal and Nuno Vidal

The Post-War Angola: Public Sphere, Political Regime and Democracy – Paulo C. J. Faria

Political Identity and Conflict in Central Angola, 1975–2002 – Justin Pearce

Angola: The Struggle for Peace and Reconstruction – Inge Tvedten and Jeremy John (eds.)

Diamonds, Oil, and War: The Politics of Resource Wealth in Angola – Tony Hodges

Angola: From Socialism to Liberalism – Ricardo Soares de Oliveira

Working the System: A Political Ethnography of the New Angola – Jon Schubert

Routledge Handbook of Public Policy in Africa – Edited by Gedion Onyango (Chapter by Francisco Miguel Paulo)

Governance and the Fight Against Corruption in Angola: Quid Vales? Quo Vadis? – Victor Duarte Lledó and Marco Miguel

📘 Public Administration

Economic Governance and the Institutions: What Way for Angola? – CMI Report (2009)

Local Government Discretion and Accountability in Angola – World Bank (2008)

📘 Criminal Justice / Law / Legal Studies

Republic of Angola – Legal System and Research – Ivan Sipkov (Globalex)

Juvenile Justice in Angola – UNICRI (2004)

📘 Divinity / Theology / Religious Studies

The Catholic Church and the Angolan War of Liberation – Linda Heywood

Historical Dictionary of Angola – Susan M. Broadhead

📘 Gender Studies

War and Women in Angola: The Political and Social Impact of the Civil War on Women – Assis Malaquias and Patricia Schuler

📘 Anthropology / Sociology / Cultural Studies / Ethnic Studies

Diamonds in the Rough: Corporate Paternalism and African Professionalism on the Mines of Colonial Angola, 1917–1975 – Todd Cleveland

Mina, Casa e Coração: Dinâmicas Sociais na Indústria Angolana de Diamantes – Cristina Udelsmann Rodrigues

Street-Level Bureaucracy in Angola: Clientelism, Informal Practices, and State Effectiveness – Jon Schubert

📘 Philosophy / Intellectual History

Angolan Political Thought: Resistance and African Philosophy – Sandra T. E. Jovchelovitch

📘 History

War, Nationalism, and the State in Angola, 1961–1992 – W. Martin James

The Angolan War: A Study in Soviet Policy in the Third World – Arthur J. Klinghoffer

The Post-Colonial Condition: A History of Angola, 1974–2002 – Stephen Ellis

From the Barrel of a Gun: The Politics of Gun Control in Angola – Louisa Lombard

📘 Social Work

The Cost of Inaction: Case Studies from Rwanda and Angola – Sudhir Anand, et al.

📘 Journalism / Communication / Media Studies

The Post-War Angola: Public Sphere, Political Regime and Democracy – Paulo C. J. Faria

📘 Education / Teaching

Investing in the People? Analysis of Education Policies in Angola – Francisco Miguel Paulo (in Routledge Handbook of Public Policy in Africa)

📘 Library Science / Cultural Preservation

Cubans in Angola: South-South Cooperation and Transfer of Knowledge, 1976–1991 – Christine Hatzky

📘 Peace Studies / Human Rights

Angola’s Last Best Chance: The End of the Cold War and the Angolan Civil War – William Reno

The Anatomy of Peacebuilding: UN Peacekeeping Missions in Post-Conflict Angola – Assis Malaquias

The Politics of Peace in Angola – Chris Alden

