Political Science / International Relations / International Affairs / Public Policy / Strategic Leadership / Development Studies
Austria: A Short History – Gordon Brook-Shepherd

The Politics of Austria – Andrew Byrnes (ed.)

Austria in the European Union – Günter Bischof & Fritz Plasser

Austria’s Neutrality in Post-Cold War Europe – Ruth Wodak (ed.)

Social Partnership and Democracy in Austria – Karl Aiginger

Public Administration
The Austrian Federal State: Structure and Reform – Peter Bußjäger

Governance and Public Management in Austria – Gerhard Hammerschmid (ed.)

SIGMA Public Administration Country Profiles: Austria – OECD

Criminal Justice / Law / Laws / Legal Studies / Studies in Law
The Constitution of Austria – Manfred Stelzer

The Austrian Legal System – Herbert Hausmaninger & Paul Volken

The Waldheim Affair – Robert Edwin Herzstein

Criminal Justice in Europe: Austria – Christopher Harding

Divinity / Theology / Religious Studies
The Catholic Church in Austria – Bruce F. Pauley

Religion and the Cold War in Austria – Mark Edward Ruff

Religious Pluralism and Secularism in Austria – Paul Zulehner

Gender Studies
Gender Politics in Austria – Gabriele Melischek

Women, Work and Welfare in Austria – Hildegard Nachtschatt

Gender Equality and Welfare Politics in Austria – Birgit Sauer

Anthropology / Sociology / Cultural Studies / Indigenous Studies / Ethnic Studies
The Austrians: A Thousand-Year Odyssey – David R. W. Jones

Inventing Austria: The Cultural Construction of a Nation – Matthew Paul Berg

Beyond the Nation: Immigrants’ Local Lives in Transnational Cultures – Monika Mokre (ed.)

The Vienna Coffeehouse Wits – Harold B. Segel

Philosophy
Wittgenstein’s Vienna – Allan Janik & Stephen Toulmin

The Vienna Circle: The Origin of Neo-Positivism – Victor Kraft

Austrian Philosophy: The Legacy of Franz Brentano – Barry Smith

History
The Habsburg Empire: A New History – Pieter M. Judson

Austria: A Short History – Gordon Brook-Shepherd

The First Austrian Republic – Charles A. Gulick

Austria post-1945 – Auschwitz – Oliver Rathkolb

A History of Austria – Steven Beller

Social Work
Social Welfare in Austria – Roland Atzmüller

The Austrian Social Model – Emmerich Talos

Welfare State Transformation in Austria – Herbert Obinger

Journalism / Communication / Media Studies / Digital Media / Social Media Marketing / Public Relations
Media and Democracy in Austria – Fritz Plasser

Press Freedom and Pluralism in Europe: Austria – Andrea Prat

Digital Media in Austria – Beate Großegger

Education / Teaching
Education and the Nation: Austria – David Phillips

The Austrian Education System – Heinz Fassmann

Vocational Education and Training in Austria – Norbert Lachmayr

Library Science
The Austrian National Library: Treasures and History – Johanna Rachinger

Digital Preservation in Austrian Libraries – Gerhard Müller

Peace Studies / Human Rights
Neutrality and State-Building in Austria – Albert Rauch

Human Rights in Austria – Manfred Nowak (ed.)

The Waldheim Affair – Robert Edwin Herzstein

