Political Science / International Relations / International Affairs / Public Policy / Strategic Leadership / Development Studies
The Quiet Revolution in The Bahamas – Doris Johnson

Sir Lynden Pindling: The Pioneering Father of The Bahamas – Patricia Glinton-Meicholas

The Bahamas in the Caribbean Context – Gail Saunders

Bahamas: A Country Study – Sandra W. Meditz (ed.)

Caribbean Sovereignty, Development and Democracy in an Age of Globalization – Linden Lewis (ed.)

Public Administration
Public Administration in Small and Island States – R. Baker (ed.)

Public Sector Reform in Developing Countries: The Role of Politics and Good Governance – Yusuf Bangura

Government and Politics in The Bahamas – Colin A. Hughes

Criminal Justice / Law / Laws / Legal Studies / Studies in Law
The Legal System of the Bahamas – Gilbert Rodman

Law and Justice in The Bahamas – Eugene Dupuch Law School Publications

The Constitution of the Commonwealth of The Bahamas – Government of The Bahamas

Comparative Law and Caribbean Justice – Simeon C.R. McIntosh

Crime, Criminal Justice and Public Policy in The Bahamas – Ian Bethell-Bennett

Divinity / Theology / Religious Studies
Faith, Politics and Public Square in The Bahamas – Ranford Patterson

Christianity in The Bahamas: A Historical Overview – Rev. Neil Ellis

Religion and Politics in the Contemporary Caribbean – Armando Lampe (ed.)

Gender Studies
Gender and the Caribbean: The Bahamas Perspective – Keva Bethel

Women's Rights in the Caribbean: The Bahamas and Beyond – UNIFEM Caribbean Office

Bahamian Women: A Collection of Writings – Helen Klonaris (ed.)

Anthropology / Sociology / Cultural Studies / Indigenous Studies / Ethnic Studies
Islanders in the Stream: A History of the Bahamian People – Michael Craton and Gail Saunders

The Bahamas: Islands of Song – Timothy Rommen

Race and Class in The Bahamas – Nicolette Bethel

Bahamian Society after Emancipation – Gail Saunders

The People Who Came: The Human History of the Bahamas – Paul Albury

Philosophy
Decolonizing the Mind: Caribbean Philosophical Essays – Paget Henry

Caribbean Dialogues in Philosophy – Clevis Headley (ed.)

History
Islanders in the Stream: A History of the Bahamian People, Vols. 1 & 2 – Michael Craton and Gail Saunders

The Bahamas from Slavery to Servitude, 1783–1933 – Howard Johnson

The Story of The Bahamas – Paul Albury

The History of The Bahamas – Michael Craton

The Loyalists in The Bahamas – Wilbur H. Siebert

Social Work
Social Work Practice with Families and Children in The Bahamas – Sharon Poitier

Social Development in Island States – Commonwealth Secretariat Publications

Caribbean Social Work: International Perspectives – Leith Dunn (ed.)

Journalism / Communication / Media Studies / Digital Media / Social Media Marketing / Public Relations
Media and Democracy in the Caribbean – Anthony Maingot (ed.)

The Bahamas: The Power and Politics of News Media – Joan Thompson

Caribbean Media in Transition – Ian Randle Publishers

Education / Teaching
Education in The Bahamas: From Colonialism to Nationhood – Keva Bethel

Voices of Bahamian Educators – Leonard Archer (ed.)

Issues in Caribbean Education – Barbara Bailey (ed.)

Curriculum Development in The Bahamas – Ministry of Education Reports

Library Science
Libraries and Archives in the Bahamas: A Historical Overview – Roselyn King

Preserving Memory: National Archives of The Bahamas – Department of Archives

Information Literacy in Island Nations – IFLA Regional Reports

Peace Studies / Human Rights
Human Rights in the Caribbean: A Bahamian Perspective – Linda Moxey-Brown

Crime and Peacebuilding in The Bahamas – Caribbean Human Rights Network

Migration and Human Rights in the Bahamas – Patricia Glinton-Meicholas

