Political Science / International Relations / International Affairs / Public Policy / Strategic Leadership / Development Studies
Sectarian Politics in the Gulf: From the Iraq War to the Arab Uprisings – Frederic M. Wehrey

Bahrain: The Modernization of Autocracy – Jill Crystal

The Government and Politics of the Middle East and North Africa – Mark Gasiorowski (ed.)

Political Reform in the Gulf: The Case of Bahrain – Justin Gengler

Rentier State in the Gulf – Giacomo Luciani (ed.)

Public Administration
Public Sector Reform in the Middle East and North Africa – Robert P. Beschel Jr. and Tarik M. Yousef

Governing the Arab World in the Twenty-First Century – Bassel F. Salloukh

Administrative Reform in Developing Nations – Ali Farazmand

The Politics of Public Sector Performance: Pockets of Effectiveness in Developing Countries – Lant Pritchett (ed.)

Criminal Justice / Law / Laws / Legal Studies / Studies in Law
Law and the State in the Middle East: Between Flexibility and Rigidity – Joseph Massad (ed.)

Human Rights and the Middle East and North Africa: A Compilation of Reports – Amnesty International

Sharia and National Law in Muslim Countries – Jan Michiel Otto (Bahrain chapter)

Bahrain: Criminal Justice System and Human Rights Concerns – Human Rights Watch Reports

Divinity / Theology / Religious Studies
Shi‘ism and Political Protest in the Gulf – Laurence Louër

The Shia Revival: How Conflicts within Islam Will Shape the Future – Vali Nasr

Islam and Politics – John L. Esposito

Religion and Politics in the Middle East – Robert D. Lee

Gender Studies
Women and Gender in Islam – Leila Ahmed

Gender and Citizenship in the Middle East – Suad Joseph

Gender Justice and Legal Reform in the Arab World – Maha Al-Shaarawi

Women in the Middle East and North Africa: Agents of Change – Fatima Sbaity Kassem

Anthropology / Sociology / Cultural Studies / Indigenous Studies / Ethnic Studies
Tribes and Politics in Yemen: A History of the Houthi Conflict – Marieke Brandt (useful for comparative Gulf studies)

The Other Saudis: Shiism, Dissent and Sectarianism – Toby Matthiesen

Migrants and Citizens: Demographic Change in the Gulf – Claire Beaugrand

Bahrain: Shouting in the Dark – Al Jazeera Documentary (for sociological and cultural study complement)

Philosophy
Islamic Political Thought: An Introduction – Gerhard Bowering

The Political Philosophy of Muhammad Abduh – Charles C. Adams

Contemporary Arab Thought: Cultural Critique in Comparative Perspective – Elizabeth Suzanne Kassab

History
The Political History of Modern Bahrain – Abdulhadi Khalaf

The Pearl and the Faith: Islam and Society in the Persian Gulf – Robert L. Jarman

Britain and the Gulf Shaikhdoms, 1820–1971: The Politics of Protection – James Onley

From Pearls to Oil: How the Oil Industry Came to the Arab Gulf – Mandy Turner

Social Work
Social Work in the Middle East – Hussein Soliman (ed.)

Migrant Domestic Workers in the Middle East: The Home and the World – Bina Fernandez

Social Welfare in Muslim Societies – Jamil Jreisat

Journalism / Communication / Media Studies / Digital Media / Social Media Marketing / Public Relations
Media Evolution on the Eve of the Arab Spring – Leila Hudson (ed.)

News Media and Political Conflict in the Arab World – Sarah El-Richani

Digital Resistance in the Middle East – Deborah L. Wheeler

Arab Media: Globalization and Emerging Media Industries – Noha Mellor

Education / Teaching
Education in the Arab Gulf States and the Arab World – Nagat El-Sanabary

Higher Education in the Gulf States: Shaping Economies, Politics and Culture – Christopher Davidson

Education and the Arab World: Political Projects, Struggles, and Geometries of Power – André Elias Mazawi (ed.)

Library Science
Libraries in the Arab World – Fayiz A. Al-Shubayli

Preservation of Archives in the Gulf States – Gulf Cooperation Council Cultural Office Reports

Knowledge Production in the Arab World – Sari Hanafi and Rigas Arvanitis

Peace Studies / Human Rights
Bahrain’s Uprising: Resistance and Repression in the Gulf – Ala'a Shehabi and Marc Owen Jones (eds.)

Unfulfilled Promises: Human Rights in Bahrain – Amnesty International

Human Rights in the Arab World: Independent Voices – Anthony Chase and Amr Hamzawy

The Politics of Sectarianism in Post-Uprising Bahrain – Justin Gengler

