📘 Political Science / International Relations / Public Policy / Development Studies
Democracy in Botswana – John Holm & Patrick Molutsi
Botswana: A Modern Economic History – Ellen Hillbom & Jutta Bolt
Botswana Politics and Society – Wazha Morapedi
Economic Development in Botswana – Charles Harvey & Stephen R. Lewis, Jr.
The Success of Botswana: Development, Democracy and Capacity Building in an African State – Scott D. Taylor
Pula: Botswana Journal of African Studies – Various contributors (journal collection)

📘 Public Administration
Land, Politics and Power in Botswana: The Tragedy of Local Governance – Wazha Morapedi
Public Administration in Botswana: From Inefficiency to Reform – Mogopodi Lekorwe

📘 Criminal Justice / Legal Studies / Law
Customary Law in Botswana – Isaac Schapera
The Judicial System of Botswana – Charles Fombad
Law and Religion in Botswana – Ndangwa Noyoo
Botswana Penal Code – (Official legal text)
Botswana Constitution – (Official legal text)

📘 Divinity / Religious Studies / Theology
Religion and Politics in Botswana – James N. Amanze
Christianity in Botswana: A Developmental Perspective – James N. Amanze
Badimo and Christianity in Botswana – various contributors

📘 Gender Studies
Gender and the Politics of the Household in Botswana – Janet McIntosh
Women in Botswana: Gender and Politics in Southern Africa – Naomi Chazan
Gender-Based Violence in Botswana: A Socio-Legal Perspective – Nonofo Molefhi

📘 Anthropology / Sociology / Ethnic Studies / Cultural Studies
The Kalahari Ethnographies (1896–1898) of Siegfried Passarge – Edited by Jan-Bart Gewald
The San: Hunter-Gatherers of the Kalahari – Alan Barnard
Culture and Customs of Botswana – James Denbow & Phenyo C. Thebe
The Bushmen of Southern Africa: Slaughter of the Innocent – Sandy Gall
The Peoples of Africa: Ethnohistorical Dictionary (Botswana section) – James S. Olson

📘 History
History of Botswana – Thomas Tlou & Alec Campbell
Botswana: An African Miracle – Godfrey Mwakikagile
Survival for Service: The Botswana Police, 1885–1985 – Fred Morton & Jeff Ramsay
Bechuanaland: A Study in Colonial Administration, 1885–1966 – Neil Parsons
Khama and the White Man's Government – John D. Holm

📘 Social Work
HIV/AIDS in Botswana: Challenges and Prospects – Alan Whiteside
Social Development in Botswana: The Role of NGOs and Community-Based Organizations – M. Maundeni
Youth and Employment in Botswana: Policy Responses – B. Sebudubudu

📘 Journalism / Communication / Media Studies / Digital Media / PR
Media and Democracy in Botswana – Richard Tabulawa
Press Freedom in Botswana – S. Mpofu & K. Lekalake
Public Relations Practice in Botswana – Tshepo Phirinyane

📘 Education / Teaching
Education for Kagisano: A Review of Education in Botswana – Botswana Government White Paper
Educational Reform in Botswana: The Challenges of Access, Equity, and Quality – Moahi J. Mphahlele
Curriculum Development in Botswana: The Case of Moral Education – Mpho Pheko

📘 Library Science
Libraries and Information Services in Botswana: Developments and Challenges – S. A. Letsie
Preserving Botswana’s Documentary Heritage – Botswana National Archives reports

📘 Peace Studies / Human Rights
Human Rights in Botswana: National and International Perspectives – Molefe T. Tafa
Peace and Conflict Resolution in Southern Africa: The Botswana Experience – Kwasi D. Prah
The San and the Botswana State: Politics, Power and Citizenship – Robert Hitchcock