📘 Political Science / International Relations / Public Policy / Development Studies
The Politics of Brazil – Alfred P. Montero
Brazil: The Troubled Rise of a Global Power – Michael Reid
Lula and His Politics of Cunning – John D. French
Brazil on the Global Stage – Riordan Roett & David Rockefeller Center for Latin American Studies
Democracy in Brazil: Collapse and Regression – Leonardo Avritzer
The Political Construction of Brazil: Society, Economy, and State Since Independence – Luiz Carlos Bresser-Pereira

📘 Public Administration
Public Management Policy Change in Brazil – Luiz Carlos Bresser-Pereira
Bureaucratic Insurgency: The Rise of the Brazilian Public Sector – Ian MacMillen
Reforming the State in Brazil – Mark A. Dutz et al. (World Bank)

📘 Criminal Justice / Legal Studies / Law
The Brazilian Legal Profession in the Age of Globalization – Edited by Luciana Gross Cunha et al.
Law and Citizenship in Latin America: The Case of Brazil – Pedro L. Sanhueza & Karen Engle
Criminal Justice in Brazil: Toward an Equitable System – Maíra Rocha Machado
Brazilian Civil Code – (Official legal text)
Constitution of Brazil (1988) – (Official legal text)

📘 Divinity / Religious Studies / Theology
Afro-Brazilian Religions – Roger Bastide
The Catholic Church and Politics in Brazil – Scott Mainwaring
Pentecostalism in Brazil: Emotion of the Poor – David Martin
Encantaria Brasileira: O Livro dos Mestres e das Mestras – Reginaldo Prandi

📘 Gender Studies
Gender and the Politics of History in Latin America – Elizabeth Dore & Maxine Molyneux
Feminicide in Brazil – Nadine Gasman & Wânia Pasinato
LGBT Rights in Brazil: An Analysis of Policy and Perception – Rafael de Souza Mendes

📘 Anthropology / Sociology / Cultural Studies / Indigenous Studies / Ethnic Studies
Death Without Weeping: The Violence of Everyday Life in Brazil – Nancy Scheper-Hughes
Brazil: A Biography – Lilia M. Schwarcz & Heloisa M. Starling
Black into White: Race and Nationality in Brazilian Thought – Thomas E. Skidmore
The Falling Sky: Words of a Yanomami Shaman – Davi Kopenawa & Bruce Albert
Quilombolas: Tradição e Cultura Afro-brasileira – Flávia Santos de Souza

📘 History
Brazil: Five Centuries of Change – Thomas E. Skidmore
A Concise History of Brazil – Boris Fausto
The Brazilians – Joseph A. Page
Getúlio Vargas of Brazil: Sphinx of the Pampas – John W. F. Dulles
The Brazilian Empire: Myths and Histories – Emilia Viotti da Costa

📘 Social Work
Social Policy and Social Work in Brazil – Antonio de Pádua Carvalho
The Politics of Social Policy in Brazil – Evelyne Huber & John D. Stephens
Poverty and Inequality in Brazil: Reflections and Trends – Tereza Campello & Marcelo Neri

📘 Journalism / Communication / Media Studies / Digital Media / PR
Media Power and Democratization in Brazil – Carolina Matos
The Brazilian Media: Under Fire – James Painter
Disinformation in Brazilian Politics – Eduardo Magrani (Editor)

📘 Education / Teaching
Education and Social Change in Latin America – Sara Delamont & Paul Atkinson
Race and Educational Inequality in Brazil – Edward Telles & Nelson Lim
The Education of Indigenous Peoples in Brazil – Giselda Laporta Nicolelis

📘 Library Science
The National Library of Brazil and the Cultural Memory of the Nation – Lucia Gaspar
Libraries in Brazil: A Portrait – Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics (IBGE) Reports
Digital Libraries and Access to Knowledge in Brazil – Solange Santos Andrade

📘 Peace Studies / Human Rights
The Human Rights Paradox: Brazil under the Military Regime, 1964–1985 – James N. Green
Land, Rights and the Politics of Indigenous Struggles in Brazil – Fiona Watson
The Rise of Human Rights in Brazil: From Grassroots Movements to International Pressure – Flávia Piovesan