📘 Political Science / International Relations / Public Policy / Development Studies
Post-Communist Democratization in Bulgaria – Venelin I. Ganev

Bulgaria in Transition: Politics, Economics, Society and Culture after Communism – John D. Bell (Ed.)

Political Corruption in Transition: A Skeptic's Handbook – Stephen Kotkin and András Sajó (includes Bulgaria)

Bulgaria and Europe: Shifting Identities – Stefanos Katsikas (Ed.)

The EU and the Western Balkans: European Integration and the Return of the Past – Florian Bieber (includes Bulgarian foreign policy)

📘 Public Administration
Public Administration in Southeast Europe: Traditions, Reforms, and Future Developments – M. Vintar, T. A. Schuppan, G. Nemec (Chapters on Bulgaria)

Governance in the New EU Member States: Enhancing Administrative Capacity and Efficiency – Carlos Nunes Silva (includes Bulgaria)

📘 Criminal Justice / Law / Legal Studies
The Bulgarian Legal System – George Dimitrov

Judicial Independence in Transition – Anja Seibert-Fohr (Case study on Bulgaria)

Constitutional Review and Democracy in Bulgaria – Daniela Piana (Ed.)

Rule of Law and the European Union: State of Play in Bulgaria and Romania – European Parliament Policy Briefs

📘 Divinity / Theology / Religious Studies
Eastern Orthodoxy in a Global Age: Tradition Faces the Twenty-First Century – Victor Roudometof (includes Bulgarian Orthodox Church)

Religion and Politics in Post-Socialist Central and Southeastern Europe – Sabrina P. Ramet (includes case studies on Bulgaria)

📘 Gender Studies
Gender Politics and Everyday Life in the EU: The Gender Equality Strategy in Bulgaria – Andrea Krizsan and Violetta Zentai

Women’s Movements in Post-Communist Europe and the Former Soviet Union – Linda Racioppi & Katherine O'Sullivan See (includes Bulgaria)

Gender and Citizenship in Bulgaria – Marina Ilieva

📘 Anthropology / Sociology / Ethnic Studies
Ethnicity and Nationalism in East Central Europe and the Balkans – Tibor Tóth (includes Bulgaria)

Social Inequality and Ethnic Stratification in Bulgaria – Lilia Dimova

Being Roma in Bulgaria – Bernard Rorke (Open Society Foundations)

The Roma in Bulgarian Society – Elena Marushiakova and Veselin Popov

📘 History
A Concise History of Bulgaria – R. J. Crampton

The Balkans: Nationalism, War, and the Great Powers, 1804–2012 – Misha Glenny (significant coverage of Bulgaria)

Imagining the Balkans – Maria Todorova (Bulgarian historian, essential for regional identity)

Communism and the Emergence of Democracy in Bulgaria – Venelin I. Ganev

📘 Social Work
Social Policy and International Interventions in South East Europe – Bob Deacon and Paul Stubbs (includes Bulgaria)

Roma and the Politics of Marginality in Southeastern Europe – Ana Ivasiuc (focuses on policy, social inclusion, and development)

Bulgaria: Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper – World Bank Report

📘 Media / Journalism / Communication / PR / Digital Media
Media Freedom and Pluralism in the EU: Bulgaria and Beyond – Evangelia Psychogiopoulou (Ed.)

Digital Media and Political Engagement Worldwide: A Comparative Study – Eva Anduiza et al. (Bulgaria featured in case studies)

Civic Discourse and Digital Media in Bulgaria – Bulgarian Helsinki Committee reports and OSCE monitoring

📘 Education / Teaching
Education in Eastern Europe and Eurasia – Nadiya Ivanenko (Chapter on Bulgaria)

Vocational Education and Training in Bulgaria: Systems, Reforms, and Challenges – CEDEFOP Publications

Roma Education in Bulgaria: Challenges and Perspectives – Bulgarian Helsinki Committee

📘 Library Science
The Role of Libraries in Promoting Open Access and Digital Literacy in Bulgaria – Bulgarian Library and Information Association (BLIA) reports

Preserving the Cultural Heritage of Bulgaria – National Library "St. Cyril and Methodius" publications

Libraries in the Digital Age in Eastern Europe – IFLA reports (Bulgaria included)

📘 Peace Studies / Human Rights
Human Rights in Bulgaria: Reports and Recommendations – Bulgarian Helsinki Committee (annual publications)

Discrimination and Human Rights in Bulgaria – European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights (FRA) Reports

Civil Society and Human Rights in Eastern Europe – Sabrina Ramet (Bulgaria included)

Peacebuilding and Civil Society in Bulgaria – United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) Bulgaria reports